- [Instructor] When dealing with system-to-system calls,
there are only two strategies.
The traditional model that most of us have dealt with
is the synchronous model.
The asynchronous model of interservice communication,
however, has significant value.
Before we talk about asynchronous communications
and microservices,
I want to spend a moment and talk
about standard microservices communications.
In a standard model, service-to-service communications
is over HTTP using RESTful patterns.
The calls are synchronous in nature,
meaning that the caller waits for a response,
but more importantly,
that response is sent after the request is fully processed.
Each call therefore becomes a blocking call
that the client must wait on a success or failure indicated
by status codes from the service being called.
As such, in this model, call paths can become deep.
Now it isn't usually a big deal
in small, concise operations,
but it can become a bottleneck
for longer processes across many services.
As a contrast, the other option and the focus of this course
is asynchronous communications.
There are a couple of ways
to implement asynchronous communications
and the first is over HTTP using REST.
In this model, the client sends a call
and the server immediately responds
with an accepted status code.
The client then either polls the server
or waits for a push message on a callback URL
to determine if the work was done and successful
or done and failed.
Another method, and the ultimate focus of this course,
is through the use of messaging systems
like Rabbit, Kafka, JMS, or others.
We will discuss many different ways
of implementing messaging patterns throughout this course,
but for now, we will simply say a message is put on a system
and a downstream consumer works on that message.
Successes or failures can be communicated
many different ways or not at all
in these various patterns we will discuss.
Now if you are thinking yourself
that these asynchronous communication styles
can be more complex, you're right.
In fact, it can be very difficult to do them right,
but there are benefits.
One of the biggest benefits
is offloading strain on the system.
By not having every call be a blocking call,
you can leverage more processing power behind the scenes
and not impact your customer,
and after all, not every call needs an immediate response,
and since there is a correlation
between user wait times and satisfaction,
the offloading to asynchronous
can improve satisfaction of users.
And in an eCommerce system, for instance,
that can translate to money.
In addition, many jobs take a while to run to completion
and using asynchronous communications
not only off-loads strain, but in doing so,
keeps the system as a whole healthier.
Asynchronous communications, especially in workloads and dag
or directed in cyclical graph workflows,
can allow you to build a natural retries
without negatively impacting performance
on the processes involved.
Now, this is just a very brief introduction to the needs
for asynchronous communications in a microservices system.
And as we move throughout this course,
you will see concrete use cases
where this communication style and the associated patterns
can greatly improve your system viability, scalability,
and overall operations,
which is why we built microservices in the first place.